139 rse certificate for dfg (#190)
CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE: competencies.md

is that RSEs that choose explicitly a science-supporting role outside of research will not be eligible
for funding under the statutes of many funding organisations that require a PhD at minimum.
To alleviate that and give RSEs in leadership positions a means
to become eligible for funding themselves, since completion of scientific training is often a requirement [@DFG_50_01],
we propose the introduction of certificates that can be handed out by selected institutions.

> Examples of this could be doctorates handed out on an honorary basis, or new

Reviewer: I think that "doctorates handed out on an honorary basis" sounds wrong. I get the message "if you do a good job and we like you, we will gift you a PhD". I wouldn't want to have such a PhD, I would feel like I am hacking the system and I shouldn't be there. Besides, don't sometimes politicians and other prominent people get "honorary doctorates" by some universities? I doubt these have any practical value.

I think the solution should be that funding bodies accept the certificate as enough for eligibility.

I can imagine that graduate schools introduce tracks for RSEs, which focus more on software aspects of research, but still prove in the end that the candidate is skilled in research. This would result in a fully-accepted PhD that I would be proud to have.

Was a "Dr.RSE" ever discussed, similarly to "Dr.rer.nat", "Dr.Ing.", etc? Because this may be the best way to convey the difference.

Author: A Dr. Ing was discussed and was at some point part of Kay's storyline( @jpthiele ).

Reviewer 2: Well I told the story of how the Dr.-Ing. got its hyphen (-):
Basically, established (natural) sciences did not consider engineers to do enough science back in the day, 
so it was distinguished by writing it differently (https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doktoringenieur). 
All that was simply an argument for not letting us be dissuaded by "'just' writing software has no scientific value and should not earn a proper title"

Reviewer 2: Maybe 'handed out on a cumulative basis, taking multiple software projects into account' ?

Reviewer: Ah, thanks a lot for sharing this story, I will definitely propagate it, as it fits perfectly!

I understand your point, but I think the emphasis on the "cumulative" is not the right way: I could also write a monograph that describes the software contributions, despite the fact that RSEs should be properly publishing their software contributions from day 0.

Building up on that, how about:

```suggestion
Examples of this could be doctorates based on software contributions to the scientific community, or new
```

> certificates like the certificate in @subsec:examplecareer that should become general accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certificates like the certificate in @subsec:examplecareer that should become widely accepted.
```

(or "generally", but not "general")
